Mesh processing tutorial (#1264)
o3de/o3de.org: content/docs/learning-guide/tutorials/assets/mesh-assets.md

## Preparation

**Asset Processor** is an application and a service that runs in the background while you use O3DE. Asset Processor automatically detects source assets that are placed in scan directories and schedules process jobs for the found source assets. The process jobs generate product assets that are runtime optimized for O3DE. The end-to-end process from source asset to product asset is the **Asset Pipeline**. To learn more about Asset Processor and the Asset Pipeline, refer to the [Assets](/docs/user-guide/assets/) topic in the User Guide.

Asset Processor uses *scan directories* to find assets that need to be processed. Your entire project directory structure is a scan directory. Place your `.fbx` source asset somewhere in your project, such as the `Assets` subdirectory, so it can be detected by Asset Processor.

## Processing a mesh asset

When you placed your `.fbx` source asset in your project, Asset processor detected the asset and processed it with a default set of rules for `.fbx` source assets. To customize the rules that process a mesh asset, follow the steps below:

> 1. In **O3DE Editor** locate your asset in **Asset Browser**. If you don't have an asset of your own, you can type `fbx` into the search field at the top of asset browser and use one of the provided `.fbx` files such as `sphere.fbx`.

Reviewer: Minor issue - You suggested `sphere.fbx`, but the examples used something else. You might not be able to suggest users use `o3de-logo.fbx` if its not a standard asset, but you can call out that you're using it for your examples. 
```suggestion
1. In **O3DE Editor** locate your asset in **Asset Browser**. If you don't have an asset of your own, you can type `fbx` into the search field at the top of asset browser and use one of the provided `.fbx` files. In this example, we'll use `o3de-logo.fbx`.

```

Author: The readers won't have access to that file. I couldn't get the Gem into the repo in time for this doc. I suggest the reader use their own file or the one of the included files. I am using that file specifically because I need a complex mesh for the PhysX collider tutorial to demonstrate decomposition and physmaterials and I don't want there to be any IP issues wit the documentation. We may get that file out eventually.

    ![ Search for a specific mesh asset in Asset Browser. ](/images/learning-guide/tutorials/assets/meshes-search-asset-browser.png)

    If your asset has already been processed, you might see a preview image of the asset, and a list of product assets below the `.fbx` source asset.

> 1. **Right-click** the `.fbx` source asset and choose **Edit settings...** from the context menu to open **Scene Settings**.

Reviewer: To match UI text in image.
```suggestion
1. **Right-click** the `.fbx` source asset and choose **Edit Settings...** from the context menu to open **Scene Settings**.

```

1. Let's customize the scale of the asset. Set the **Scale** property to `5.0` to scale the asset to five times its size.

{{< note >}}
You can learn about the advanced settings properties of the Coordinate system change modifier, as well as the other available modifiers and their properties, in the [Scene Settings](/docs/user-guide/assets/scene-settings) topic of the **User Guide**.
{{< /note >}}

7. Choose the **Update** button at the bottom-right of Scene Settings. This creates or updates the `.assetinfo` sidecar file and triggers Asset Processor to reprocess the asset.

8. **Left-click + drag** the source asset from Asset Browser into the viewport.

    {{< image-width "/images/learning-guide/tutorials/assets/meshes-finished.png" "800" "Drag the mesh asset into the viewport">}}

    When you drag the asset into the viewport, O3DE automatically creates an entity with a **Mesh** component that references the mesh product asset. If the source asset contains materials that have been processed, the materials are applied to the mesh by default.

> There are many options for customizing mesh processing, but there are limitations to the data that can be processed for meshes. Note that there are several product assets generated for the mesh listed below the source asset in Asset Browser. Each of these product assets contains some stream of data for the mesh. To learn more about the data that can be processed for a mesh and the limitations on the data that can be processed, refer to [Scene Format Support](/docs/user-guide/assets/scene-settings/scene-format-support) in the User Guide.

Reviewer: Adding "that are" clarifies that it's the product assets that are listed below, not the mesh that is listed below. 
```suggestion
There are many options for customizing mesh processing, but there are limitations to the data that can be processed for meshes. Note that there are several product assets generated for the mesh that are listed below the source asset in Asset Browser. Each of these product assets contains some stream of data for the mesh. To learn more about the data that can be processed for a mesh and the limitations on the data that can be processed, refer to [Scene Format Support](/docs/user-guide/assets/scene-settings/scene-format-support) in the User Guide.

```

    
    The **Name mesh** property contains the name of the source asset. All product assets of this mesh group use this string as a prefix for their name. When there are multiple mesh groups, the product assets appear in Asset Browser beneath the source asset and are organized by mesh group name.

    The **Select meshes** property reads **All meshes selected**. You can choose the {{< icon browse-edit-select-files.svg >}} file select button to select which meshes to include in the mesh group.

    For this tutorial, you can use the default mesh group with all meshes selected.

1. The customizations you make in Scene Settings are stored in a *sidecar file* with a `.assetinfo` extension. When Asset Processor detects a `.assetinfo` file, it uses the settings in the file to process the related source asset. This sidecar file is treated as a source dependency for the asset. This means that if the `.assetinfo` file is changed, the source asset will be reprocessed even if the source asset has not changed.

>     Let's add a modifier to customize how the asset is processed. Choose the **Add Modifier** button to view the mesh modifier list and select **Coordinate system change**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Let's add a modifier to customize how the asset is processed. Choose the **Add Modifier** button to view the mesh modifier list and select **Coordinate system change**.
```

1. Let's customize the scale of the asset. Set the **Scale** property to `5.0` to scale the asset to five times its size.

    {{< note >}}
You can learn about the advanced settings properties of the Coordinate system change modifier, as well as the other available modifiers and their properties, in the [Scene Settings](/docs/user-guide/assets/scene-settings) topic of the **User Guide**.
    {{< /note >}}

1. Choose the **Update** button at the bottom-right of Scene Settings. This creates or updates the `.assetinfo` sidecar file and triggers Asset Processor to reprocess the asset.

1. **Left-click + drag** the source asset from Asset Browser into the viewport.

    {{< image-width "/images/learning-guide/tutorials/assets/meshes-finished.png" "800" "Drag the mesh asset into the viewport">}}

    When you drag the asset into the viewport, O3DE automatically creates an entity with a **Mesh** component that references the mesh product asset. If the source asset contains materials that have been processed, the materials are applied to the mesh by default.

> There are many options for customizing mesh processing, but there are limitations to the data that can be processed for meshes. Note that there are several product assets generated for the mesh that are listed below the source asset in Asset Browser. Each of these product assets contains some stream of data for the mesh. To learn more about the data that can be processed for a mesh and the limitations on the data that can be processed, refer to [Scene Format Support](/docs/user-guide/assets/scene-settings/scene-format-support) in the User Guide.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are many options for customizing mesh processing, but there are limitations to the data that can be processed for meshes. Note that there are several product assets generated for the mesh that are listed below the source asset in Asset Browser. Each of these product assets contains some stream of data for the mesh. To learn more about the data that can be processed for a mesh and the limitations on the data that can be processed, refer to [3D Scene Format Support](/docs/user-guide/assets/scene-settings/scene-format-support) in the User Guide.

```
